---
layout: post
title:  ETF what to know
date:   2023-01-04 16:30:00-0400
description: Road to learning (ongoing...)
tags: formatting links
categories: sample-posts
---

## Road to learning (ongoing...)

First thing to look at is fiscal residence. As any other source of income, ETFs are no exception, this like the Italian "Dichiarazione dei Redditi"
has to feature their specification inevitably.
Saying this, the choice of the broker has to come first. For example, if we are a simple person working as an employee and we are investing, we need
to think if the fiscal report we are able to do it ourselves, is better to assign it to an accountant, or if it is better if the brokerage company
gives us every year a report ready for submission. If we choose the latter, we must chose a broker which legal office is in our same state of residence
otherwise this will be a mandatory step. Moreover, in Italy, the taxation of such assets depends on the nature of the assets themselves; ETF harmonized
are the ones we are looking for because they comply to the European normative; in addition we have "minusvalenze" and "plusvalenze" to count, which we
could have tax reductions. Brokers like Directa does this for us, as a downside we get also higher commissions. Interactive Brokers is the one who offers
the lower commissions, but as an Italian investing in ETF is not convenient since there is no access in investing in American indices, making the point
of investing in ETFs a bit without sense. The broker I found to be a bit in between these compromises is Degiro which offers better commissions rates
than Directa but offers the possibility to invest in American indices (ofc at a higher rate than Italian's).